Hey there, welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. I am so excited to be joined by our featured leader today.
We have Trevor Fry, Lead Data Analyst on the People Insights and Analytics team at Pinterest.
Trevor, I would love it if you could tell us a little bit about yourself, how you got
into data science, what you do, what you do for fun. Maybe not all of those at the
same time. I'll ask you for some updates. Who is Trevor Fry, and what does he do?
Yeah, yeah. Well, first of all, thanks for having me here today. And before I jump into
anything, I just want to give a quick disclaimer that I am, you know, expressing my own personal
views here today and not necessarily representing Pinterest. So just to get that out of the
way. Yeah, my name is Trevor. I live just outside of Washington, D.C. with my wife and
our dog who just turned one year old yesterday. And we really like doing stuff outdoors, hiking,
traveling. I grew up in Spokane, Washington, on the West Coast. So I'm still fairly new
to living on the East Coast, and there's a lot to explore and see. And I've had a lot
of fun doing that over the last few years. As far as what I do, like you said, Libby,
I'm a lead data analyst at Pinterest, more informally referred to as a People Analytics
partner. So what that means is I am on the People Insights and Analytics team, but I'm
also like embedded in the business in the sense that I work very closely with our HR
business partners and other cross-functional partners across the People team to support
the employees that sit in our engineering and product organizations. So I do analytics
and insights to support the engineers and the data scientists and the people who make
Pinterest a thing. That really involves a wide range of topics. So analyzing like our
org structure, headcount growth, employee representation. I work with hiring and recruiting
to look at like different strengths or weaknesses or opportunities or like patterns that we
might see in the types of candidates we're getting or the people that we're hiring. Throughout
my career, I've worked with like compensation and finance pretty often just to align between
our different functions. Spent a lot of time throughout my career working with learning
and development. So whether that's being sort of a thought partner in terms of what we want
to include in our learning or our training content or doing an analytics to really assess
like the impact that that learning might have or if it's actually working, if it's having
the intended effect that we wanted. Performance metrics, how we analyze who our top performers
are, are there patterns in how those performance ratings shake out? What drives high performers?
What drives low performers? A lot of really open-ended questions. Yeah. And certainly
like employee feedback. So like surveys, focus groups, any like sort of information we can
get from employees, making sense of that. Jeez, I could probably go on. Goal setting,
helping define KPIs. But I would say the work really varies both in breadth and depth. So
like people often ask me like, oh, like what's your day to day look like? And to be honest,
I feel like even before Pinterest, like my day to day, it's never the same thing every
day. It's always a little bit different. There's always something new, some ad hoc request
or something like that that comes up. So it could be anything from like, you know, high
level reporting just to help maybe leaders get a sense of our baseline or where we're
currently at, the current state. Sort of all the way to the other end of the spectrum where
it's more of like a multi-team, cross-functional, deep dive where we're triangulating the results
of numerous explanatory analyses to try to make sense of something or to try to provide
some solid recommendations on how the business can move forward. So it really does range
quite a bit. That sounds nice though. It sounds like you
never get bored. It also kind of sounds like you do the job of five or six people. So hopefully
you've got a big team. We actually have a solid team. I wouldn't say we have a big team.
But the challenge, I think, in people analytics is the balancing act. And that's a great call
out, Libby. In my space here and in previous roles, there's always sort of a push and pull
of like having prioritized projects versus like these ad hoc needs or requests that come
up. And I think that is one of the maybe more unique challenges to the people analytics
field. But I really enjoy that, like working through that ambiguity. And throughout my
career, I've had great support from like managers and leadership to help prioritize and make
that balance. So I've never really felt like I was put in a corner or a tough place by
that. But yes, it is always something new. And I don't ever feel like I'm getting bored
in this field.
Amazing. Well, we have so many questions coming in to slide out. So I think it would be
great to go ahead and hop over.
Sure.
Let me go through. Sorry, guys, I am proving things in the background here. We have a
question from Abby. Abby Allison, if you are available to unmute and ask that live,
that'd be great. And if not, let me know and I can ask it.
Okay, hey, guys. Hi. Yeah, my question is, your bio on the Posit page mentions bridging
the data science practice gap. And so just what are some primary examples of that gap
that you've experienced?
Oh, great question to start things off. Yeah, that was always when I was in grad school, I
feel like that was always a topic of conversation. Like that, how do we bridge that science
practice gap? Because I think there's a lot of like in the in the world of research and
science, we have a lot of information, we have a lot of results and takeaways, but like
translating that in a meaningful way back to business or business leaders can definitely be
challenging. I will say one of the things that I've found really helpful, and definitely a
resource I would recommend. There's a book called Storytelling with Data by Cole Naflak.
She used to be at Google, I believe, and has since really spun off a whole sort of business
with this book that she wrote. But it's a really incredible book in terms of like, how we
really communicate the findings that we have, the meaning behind the data that we're
working with to our stakeholders in a way that resonates with them. Not just in terms of
like how we communicate it, but how we present that visually. The book does an amazing job of
giving like examples of how to really highlight what you're trying to pinpoint with like your
charts or your tables or how you're presenting data. I have read that book several times now,
it's something I always go back to. But I think that's sort of one piece of it. I think
bridging that science practice gap is always going to be a challenge. I don't think there's
necessarily a solution to that. It's just something that we always have to
kind of keep in the back of our minds and be prepared for.
And you have a pretty solid background in research. I don't think that we have mentioned
specifically your educational background, but do you want to do a quick rundown on that? I know
that you've told me it's a long story, there's too much to talk about. Give us a brief view.
Yeah, I'll try to give it like the elevator pitch here and keep it concise. Because my
journey into the field of people analytics has definitely not been a linear one. I started off
in school studying psychology. I really love psychology. I ended up getting into a grad
program to get my master's degree in experimental psych. And at the time I was preparing to go into
academia. That just kind of seemed like the natural next step for the route that I was on.
Coincidentally, I was working in the tutoring center. Again, I'm trying to keep this brief,
working in the tutoring center at my college campus. And that was really my, happened to be
my first sort of experience doing more applied research. So I had a pretty administrative role
as administrative assistant for the person who ran the tutoring program. That person happened to
be pursuing their PhD in education. And so one day they came to me and they said, you know,
I've been doing research on tutoring. And basically what he told me is as he had reviewed
the literature, there's all these peer reviewed articles about how tutoring works. But almost all
of it was done at the elementary school level. There was a handful of articles that were published
on high school students, but at that time there was really no peer reviewed like literature out
there that had evidence to say that tutoring works in post-secondary or in college level
education. And so he was like, with the data you're working with, could we see if our tutoring
program actually works? Which was really meaningful because, you know, every university in the country
has a tutoring program almost. So it's a big investment. And to not know if it works or not
seemed like a really cool opportunity. So long story short, did a bunch of analyses. We were
able to demonstrate that our tutoring program did have an effect on people's grades and their
grade improvements. And that became like the first paper that I actually got published.
And so from there, I was like, I don't think I want to be a professor anymore. Like I want to
use these research skills in a more meaningful way. And I really enjoyed that opportunity to
work with real world data instead of, as opposed to just being in a lab, which I loved being in
labs. But that's when I learned about industrial organizational psychology. And so from there,
I went into grad school for IO psychology. I ended up working at a small consulting firm
while I was in school, which gave me exposure to a lot of different contracts. And I really felt
helped me to become more agile and just like how I use my skills and
how I could apply that to our, the client work that we were doing. I was also, I got really
into studying team effectiveness. I played sports growing up. So that was sort of a topic that I
really gravitated towards in IO psychology, like the study of team and group dynamics and
team effectiveness is really a hot topic. So that was something that really resonated with me.
And that sort of launched me into the next stages of my career, working with the Navy and the Army
Research Institute, really doing a lot of mixed methods research. So combination of qualitative
and quantitative research, which is fascinating. I thought I knew what research was, and then I
learned about qualitative and it's like a completely different world. So that was a really
great experience. We were studying, you know, multi-team systems and how, you know, ships and
planes communicate and coordinate in the contested environment and what, you know, what can help
facilitate that or what can help enable that. From there, I ended up taking a job with the Army
Research Institute, studying team effectiveness, but ultimately came to learn that I really wanted to
do more, like I was doing a lot of research focus groups. I was starting to do some
like machine learning stuff, but I really had an appetite for that. And I wanted to do more of
that advanced analytics. And so that's when I transitioned out of government and defense work.
And I took a job at Nordstrom as a workforce scientist, actually a data science role.
Yeah, really cool title, which I still have that. But that's when I really kind of got into the
field of people analytics and started to learn how to hone my skills even more with that
people data and with that like HR focus and really focusing on more like business outcomes
as opposed to more of the kind of foundational research type thing. So
long-winded story there, but that's sort of my journey into the field of people analytics.
Thank you. Yeah, I think a lot of people can identify with having a sort of windy journey.
We were all saying in the chat that we have lots of non-linear paths and I'm the same way,
but we have so many questions in Slido. We're not going to be able to get to all of them today,
but many of them are fantastic. So you mentioned that there was a little bit of nuance there
between data science work at Pinterest or people analytics and what you would consider like
traditional data science work. There's a question from Noor in the chat that's really along those
lines. Noor, are you available to unmute and ask your question? Hello. Hi. Hi, sorry. My throat's
a little sore. Hi. So yes, as Libby said, I'm interested in like what are the nuances that you
would say distinguish data science at Pinterest as well as the data science that seems to be more,
I guess, people-facing in your role versus more traditional data science and what advice would
you have for people who are trying to get more experience or hands-on experience in that type of
data? Yeah, good question. So I will say like my answer is going to be a little bit biased because
I don't consider myself like a traditional data science. That's not my education or my background
per se. I do think the type of like the way I approach problems in people analytics is probably
not that much different than a data scientist might approach problems in their space. I think
where the nuance probably would come in is just like the nature of people data being a bit more
sensitive. We have to be very careful. This isn't a Pinterest thing. Like anywhere you're working in
people analytics, you have to be very careful with like just anonymizing data, making sure like
how we're dealing with like within our HR records there's always going to be a lot of
personally identifying information. So how we consume that, how we make sure that that's protected
and that's not shared in some inappropriate way, that's definitely an important
nuance to it. I would say there might be other nuance in like how we manage data when it
comes to like some of the more finer details of like how we manage missing data or
how we're working with like a nested model because in an organization like almost everything is
nested. Like we have people working on teams, working in departments, working in
larger organizations. And so how we might account for that might be different than how you
might do that if you were working with like some sort of like visual
machine learning algorithm or something like that. For us, I will also say that there's the
nuance of in people analytics like one of the most important things is being able to explain
like the output or the result to our stakeholders. And so how we approach that might be a bit
different just in like how we communicate it. Again, I'll go back to Cole's book on storytelling
with data as a reference there. I don't think that's limited to just people analytics. I think
anybody who's working with data should find value in that book. Hopefully that answers your
question. It's kind of a tough one to answer, but I think that's the best I can do.
I think that was a great answer. It sounds like people analytics has maybe a lot more
of the qualitative mixed in by default because human beings are complex, right? And then
I wanted to say there was a great thing, Trevor, the last time I spoke to you that you said to me,
you said in order to successfully drive the message home, you have to speak the language
that the audience is speaking. And you said that in the military, when you were working
with the military, you even needed to like get down to the level of explaining what data means.
Like what is data? What does Trevor mean when Trevor's saying data? And I think that that's
such a great call out. Like you have to get down to the bits and pieces of what you're talking
about and make sure that the other person's understanding the same thing, right? Yeah,
yeah, absolutely. Being able to speak the language of your audiences is absolutely critical. I
had no idea how many acronyms I was going to learn when I started working in the military space,
but I still remember a lot of those today. And sometimes they just like come out automatically.
I think as I was working, even in grad school, as like as a consultant, that's something I picked
up on too. Like we had a lot of different contracts from government, private industry,
some military. And so like from one day to the next, like the level of detail,
the exact like language I'm using and the terminology I would use would often shift.
And really just trying to align with that audience. So
reduces confusion. We have to answer less questions and ultimately like to get their
buy in on either what we're finding or what we're recommending. Yeah, I do remember early on in my
data science career when I was working with people with engineering backgrounds, and they were the
ones who asked me like, when you say data, what do you mean? Because in my head, I had a very clear
understanding of like, like we were working with a survey. So it's like, it's the survey responses.
And the engineers had a much broader, you know, interpretation of what data, what qualifies as
data. So that was definitely a moment I won't forget. I started laughing a little bit, everybody,
because I have also worked in defense and have also like swum in those military acronyms. And it's
so much, if you think that corporate acronyms are overwhelming, you have not seen anything
until you've been in the military space. I remember I kept saying when I first got into
the military space, I kept saying EOD for end of day. And everybody was like, Libby,
you have to stop because EOD is explosive ordinance disposal. And it's not something
that you should be saying all the time. There's lots of heads nodding. And yes, I should know
better. I come from literally military city, USA. So fantastic question. Thank you so much.
I wanted to ask while we are sort of in this space, and we're talking about what data science is,
and how we do it. Usually by this time, we have asked a tech stack question. And I wanted to
throw that in there. So what tools do you do? What tools do you use to do data science, whether
that's at Pinterest or anywhere else? So languages, IDEs, environments that you work in,
do you use Databricks? Do you use Snowflake? Do you use any tools that we would recognize?
And it doesn't have to be Pinterest specific because I know that you've worked at
a couple of other places too. Yeah. I have worked with Snowflake, Microsoft,
SQL Server Manager, Studio. Wow. A lot of different data sourcing.
I mean, throughout my career, I've had plenty of times where I just received Excel spreadsheets
full of data too. For me, my preference for almost as long as I can remember now is RStudio.
I, at a certain point in grad school, committed myself to wanting to learn R.
In psychology, the universities I went to, and I think most typically teach statistics in SPSS,
which is expensive and clunky and sort of limited in what you can do with it,
at least in my experience. But R seemed like sort of the holy grail of being able to do
anything and everything or build functions and build your own algorithms.
So that is where I spend the majority of my time doing analytics is in RStudio.
I prefer it for a lot of different reasons. I have had use cases in projects where I've
worked on Python. I don't think I'm fluid in Python, but I'm comfortable with it.
But ultimately, for me, in the space that I work in, like applied statistics, I just feel like
the packages that come in R are much more robust and just fit sort of my need much better.
Yeah, I say I do use others like Tableau. I've sort of grown to like, I was resistant to it at
first, but building dashboards in Tableau has been definitely helpful, especially in some cases.
I still do use like Excel and Google Sheets for some things. Less on the
I mean, I use Sheets every single day. No Sheet to Excel. It's amazing.
It's kind of unavoidable. Yeah. But yeah, really, like I spend most of my time in RStudio.
We have the Posit cloud at Pinterest now. So that connects directly to our data sources. So
that's been a big, a big improvement in terms of efficiency. So I'm not having to like
work with flat files. You are spoiled with Kinect.
Yeah, that's that's been a huge, you know, lift and or lift off of our backs. And also just like,
I'm not a security expert, but I know that like the deposit cloud is a much more secure
environment than like, yeah, downloading flat files onto your laptop and then have absolutely.
Yeah. And there's actually there's a lot of a lot of security questions around AI right now.
And that was something that I wanted to kind of like, you know,
There's a lot of security questions around AI right now. And that was something that I wanted
to ask you about. Let me see if we have any questions here in our Slido that we would like
to ask while I am asking you about AI, because we have so many and I would love to get to them.
One of them is about third party data. Gregory, if you are available to ask that question,
I will ask you to unmute and I will have to find you if you'll give me just one second here.
Gregory Power. Yes. Yes. Yeah, there you are. Hi. Yeah, I guess my question. Good. Interesting
that you also work for defense. Ironically, one of the software projects I work with is grass,
which was geospatial, geospatial software from the Army Corps of Engineers, but
and another geointelligence stuff. But I'm kind of curious about what role from third,
what role third party data plays, like, for example, from data brokers and stuff like that,
for what role does that kind of data play in your analysis? And is geospatial something
that's kind of important for the kind of analysis that you do? Good question. To be perfectly
transparent, I don't think I've ever really worked with like geospatial data much in people
analytics, aside from maybe like understanding our organization's population in terms of like
the geo footprint, like where where people are sitting. I mean, I've done a lot of analyses
between like remote and hybrid and in-office employees, but I know that's not really getting
at what you're talking about in terms of geospatial data. Yeah, that's an interesting
question. I'm I'm trying to think about how we might use that in our space. I will say like in
terms of third party data brokers, I haven't really worked with any in people analytics.
Maybe the the exception might be like just benchmarking data. That was what I was going
to say. Like what about data on like what is normal across an industry? Like do you get
information like that from I don't know who who does that? What firms provide that information?
Research firms probably. Yeah, there are there are vendors that provide that.
Geez, I'm trying to think of.
Gartner, I know, is a big one that a lot of people use. I know Aon has some like
some different benchmarking services that they offer. I'm a little biased against benchmarking.
I I don't feel like it ever really is an apples to apples comparison. And I think leaders often
assume that it is. So that's something I often get hung up on. I will say like,
I think some of the better benchmarking stuff is the government provided. So like the jolts
survey that the Bureau of Labor Statistics puts out, it is it's a little lagged in that like
it's always like a month or two behind of sort of the current date. But I think that's
I think that's a more objective and more sort of robust benchmark than some of the
the private ones that people pay for. And that's my opinion.
I think a month is actually pretty good. It's pretty quick considering the lag that we see
in some places. I think, yeah, Kevin Swenson says a month is really good.
Thank you, Greg, for this question there. Yeah.
Well, even two months, I think it's pretty good.
It's good until we're in like the great resignation phase and everybody
Yeah, that's true.
Knows what's going on right now.
It depends on what's happening, right?
Immediate benchmarks. So, yeah, it depends on the use.
I think that the problem of like, hey, our leadership thinks that this industry benchmark
that's coming from this organization is a good standard. And I don't think it's really helpful.
I think that in some way, shape or form, a lot of data people have experienced that before.
Where they're like speaking to these standards or just averages in general.
And you're having to explain like this average is not representation of anything.
It's it's that average doesn't exactly exist anywhere.
So it's interesting. All right. I have some fantastic
questions here, and I would love to have Jorge or George.
I don't know if you are saying your name, Jorge or George Montoya.
Unmute and ask yours. I think it's a fantastic question.
Yeah, no problem.
Share my camera too. Sorry for the glare.
Nice to see you.
Yeah. So, yeah, thanks for being here, Trevor.
I guess my question is a little bit more on the abstract side, but high level
of like what strategies would you suggest for someone that wants to
motivate a more data driven culture, right?
In the HR department of the importance for people analytics, right?
So like, for example, for the company that I work on, like, you know, we have like survey data,
workday data, things like that, right? But we necessarily do not run analysis
on top of that data, right? So like what strategies or what
recommendations would you have to sell the idea of like, hey, you know,
maybe, you know, applying some data analytics workflows could help provide some more insights
as to like what you had mentioned before, like employee, you know, attrition or just
productivity and overall improve business outcomes.
Yeah, that's a great question. I think it's a, it's a question I read a lot about.
I know, like, developing a more, you know, data literate culture and more data literate
leadership is, I read articles about that, I feel like at least a couple times a week.
And throughout my career, I feel like that's just been an ongoing conversation.
My advice, if you're if you're trying to just like, like, you've got data,
and you're trying to figure out like how to get buy in to start like, leveraging it would be
like, start small. And like, figure out what your stakeholders like, what are the gaps your
stakeholders are facing? Like, is there? Is there like a problem that they're struggling to
solve, to understand?
Okay, let me give a more specific example, like survey data, you say you've got survey data.
For me, as an IO psychologist, that is like, the goldmine of data sources. If I could work
in survey data, like employee survey data, all day, I probably would, because I think it's just
such a rich resource and, and such good information that we get like from our employees,
whether that's just through the scores or the comments that they leave. But I've often found
like leaders are often asking questions like, well, what, you know, what drives,
whatever, fill in the blank, what drives engagement? What drives job satisfaction?
What's driving, you know, our sentiment on manager support?
If you, if you can find those types of questions and provide some insight to that,
I think that's how you can start to build that buy in. And then, in my, in my experience,
once you can, once somebody kind of gets that taste for like, oh, like, kind of having that
moment with the data that you're presenting them, they're going to start coming back for more.
They're gonna be like, hey, well, you showed us what drove engagement, like,
what's driving burnout? You know, what's, what else can we do with this? And from there,
I feel like you kind of, you get the ball rolling and you start to develop trust with your
stakeholders. And then you can start to think about those more long-term, like, okay, how do
we build a workflow to support this in a more consistent or ongoing or long-term way? But I do
think it, to build that trust and to get that buy in, you do kind of have to start out with
something bite-sized to, to, to get things started. That would be my best advice. Maybe
that won't work for everyone or in every, you know, environment, but yeah, I think that's the
best advice I could give you on, on starting to like trigger that sort of desire to be more data
literate. I think that's great advice, Trevor. Small wins, quick wins early on are fantastic.
I think that, um, I, I am too much of a detail oriented person and a question asker to work in
your area, because as you were talking, my brain was going, well, what if people are lying on
surveys? What if that's not the truth? You know, like I had a, my favorite marketing professor
always said, if you, if you survey people, they're always going to give you one of three answers,
the truth, a lie, or a lie that they think is the truth because they don't actually know what
they want, right? Like, Hey, what kind of, uh, you know, what product choice would you make in this
area? And they say, Oh, product a, but then when they get to the store and they're actually at the
shelf, they're going to pick C for some reason that they haven't decided on yet. Um, and so
whenever I think about employee survey data, that boggles my mind. And I think that would stop me in
my tracks, make me less productive. There's a cool, I think that's a valid concern and
yeah, we could probably talk for hours. I learned about an analysis a few years ago at the
society of industrial organizational psychology has a conference every year. And I saw this
presentation on something called heartbeat analysis. So real quick, like if you think
about when people are taking a survey, sometimes people just kind of go down the line and they
just, if it's on a scale of one to five, they're just clicking five for everything,
but maybe there's one item that they really feel negative about. And so it's fives on everything,
but then there's like a one on this one item. This heartbeat analysis, basically you're
normalizing everybody's scores and seeing which items are they scoring higher or lower than their
sort of normal score. And so it, you count them as like upvotes and downvotes. And it's,
it's sort of an interesting and different way to interpret the data. Um, but in one of my previous
roles, we use that and it, it got a lot of traction with leadership. Um, they really seem to
resonate to me. Yeah. Cause when, when you fill out a survey or when you look at a lot of survey
data, you realize that for a lot of people, four is the highest they're going to score anything.
They're not going to give anything a five. So if they give everything a four and then one thing of
five, you're like, Oh wow. They, they really felt strongly about that one. And I'm that same person.
I don't give anything a zero. I don't give anything a five. I find myself like really
sticking to the center. Um, that's really interesting. I'm gonna have to Google that.
Somebody put some links in the chat for me so I can see them later. Um, all right, let's move to
a Slido question. And Nicole, you asked a question and I would love it if you were still here,
if you could unmute and ask it, Nicole Burke. Yeah. Hi Trevor. Hi. Hi. Thanks. Yeah. Trevor.
Nice to meet you. Um, I'm also a fellow psych PhD who thought I wanted to do academia and now
trying to transition to, um, yeah, so my, mine's kind of more of like a forecasting question. Like
I would love to kind of like hear your thoughts of like what you think are going to be like
questions or like things that are top of mind for like folks in this space in the next, like,
I don't know, like five years, let's say like, I know like attrition and employee listening get
talked about a lot. Like, do you still think those are the things folks are going to be like
focused on or like, are there other, like, yeah, like topics or things that like, you know,
people in this space are like excited about. Good question. Yeah. Um, I mean, I think like
most spaces, AI has been like the topic of conversation the last couple of years. Um,
and I think as a field, we're still trying to figure out like how to use that,
you know, like how we're going to use it effectively and efficiently. Um,
trying to think of like something beyond just AI, cause that seems pretty, uh,
like that's what everybody's talking about now. Um,
I know like, well, I don't, I don't work in this space, but I have friends that do like
IO psychology really focuses on like assessments, like pre-hire assessments and how we select the,
you know, the right people for the right job. Um, that that's really what the field was built on.
Um, and I think over the last few years, I know there's been a lot of projects,
I don't know anybody that's really got this off the ground yet, but, um, like to do like
interviewing in more automated ways, like where you're basically interviewing with a,
some sort of AI chat bot or entity and the algorithms are scoring based on the answers
and your behaviors and things like that. I, I think that's been sort of fraught with bias and,
and that's why we haven't really seen that more, more broadly. But, um, I know that's
something that like, there's a lot of interest in that and like being able to do that and to
get it right. Um, which is obviously the hardest part. So I would say probably start seeing more
of that as, as Gen AI continues to like advance. Um, uh, what else? I do wonder, like some of the
recent research, I know personality assessments used to be a lot more common for like pre-hire
assessments. And it seems like that's, um, shifting in terms of how many, like, like who's
using it and how those assessments are designed. Um, see a lot more like forced choice type, uh,
personality measures now compared to like some of the more traditional, just like,
uh, behaviorally anchored type, type rating skills. Um, that's a good question. It's hard
to predict what's going to happen next, even when we work with all the data. Um,
yeah, even when we're right there with it, I, you've mentioned AI, it's the upcoming thing.
It's on everybody's mind. Do you want to talk a little bit about what you're excited about
specifically? Like how are you starting to integrate it and what are you excited about
integrating LLMs into your workflow to tackle? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Um,
I, I work with them a lot. I've, for me, again, I'll lean back on like the, the employee survey
stuff, cause that's, that's really one of my favorite things to work with. But I think one
of the most challenging things in people analytics, maybe not the most challenging, but definitely
the most time consuming thing we do is analyzing all of the comments that come in on the employee
surveys. And oftentimes, you know, a survey closes and we have maybe a week or two before we start
maybe a week or two to analyze all the data and get decks out to leadership, um,
to share those findings. And so like when you've got 20, 30, 40,000 comments to sift through,
that becomes pretty overwhelming for such a short timeframe. And so as these AI models have come out,
I immediately was like, Oh, this could be, this could really help make our comment analysis
process much more efficient. I think one of the challenges though, is in like,
as I'm working with the AI, like I really don't need like a creative writing
co-pilot. I need like a scientist co-pilot. So like I need the AI to get it right. And I need
to be reliable. Like if I give the AI a batch of comments and ask it a question,
like I should get the same response that my counterpart gets or, you know, anybody else
on my team would get. And so I've been exploring like more of the like local models using like
Olama, where I can, you know, set temperatures and do a little more like tuning. Um, and I feel
like that's been generally successful. Um, getting the exact same response every time is
still a challenge, but, um, I do feel like that's going to be one of the big
successes for people. Analytics is being able to process all of that, like unstructured data
in a much more efficient way. Um, again, I feel like right now it's like we get an output and
then we have to go back and like check to see, you know, do it ourselves to see like how close
the output actually was. But, um, I think that's definitely, um, a ripe opportunity for people
analytics with, with using AI. Um, I know there's other, there's some other like being able to just
give it like a, you know, a table of data and ask it a question about it. I really like to see
how that advances maybe to the previous question about like building that data literacy, like
for our, for HR business partners or other people outside of the people analytics team to be able to
self-serve and then do some of those analyses on their own to create those insights. Um,
I think that would be really beneficial for organizations as well.
Thank you. I think that we answered Zach's question. So Zach had asked what
kind of impact do you expect AI to have on people analytics? And I think that that,
oh, it just went away. It's, I think that's great. Rachel's stealing my questions y'all. Okay.
I have a question here from Mike. Mike, do you want to unmute and ask your question? Mike Smith?
I'll try. There he is. Hey. So, um, I'm interested in this cause I'm in a kind of similar
role where, um, you know, being a consultant within your organization, being kind of a just
in time data guy or a data team. Um, I think that people that we work most close closely with
value our input and, and, you know, see our value, but how do you express your return on
investment of having that data team or those data consultants upwards within
the organization? You know, what's the value of having a just in time data team?
That's a tough question. Um, I've, that's a really good question. I think it's really challenging. I,
this isn't something that we've done at Pinterest, but in my previous roles, I have had
cases where there was like a really strong desire to see like ROI of everything. Um, and leaders
who really wanted to put like a dollar sign on every single program we had to say like,
is this costing us or is this saving us money? And I think with people programs, it's incredibly
challenging to do. Um, I think there, in order to do it, you're going to have to align on like
accepting some assumptions. I think for me, that was like the biggest blocker is, you know,
we would come up with like, okay, like, here's, here's a way we can model the cost of something,
but it's never like the full, it felt like you're never really covering all the bases.
It's kind of like this, it's a signal, it's the best we've got, you know, this is what we,
based on the data we have, this is what we think, but there's always a leader to say,
oh, well, what about, you know, we're not accounting for this. We're not accounting
for that. And it was very, very challenging to ever really come to an end point on, on,
yes, we, this is the ROI of this program. I think there are some with people data,
there's things you can lean on like, um, turnover cost of turnover is something we can
get pretty close to, I think. So leaning on things like that, like, or like, maybe like
time to productivity, you could put a, you could put sort of a monetary value on.
And so it was really about like identifying, like, what can we associate a cost to? And then
from there, like, how can we make sense of that in some way? Like, how are these things related?
Um, it was fun in the sense that it was very ambiguous and like,
no one knew what the right answer was. Um, but again, like it was, it was a, it was a big
challenge to, to work with leaders and to get them sort of bought into, yes, this is the ROI of
this training or this onboarding system or, or whatever it happened to be.
That's a, that's a big challenge. Um, it's a lot to bite off.
Yeah. Thanks, Mike. Somebody in the, in the chat said quantify soft skills. Go.
I think it was Jared. Yeah. It's so hard. Um, such a challenge. Um, thank you, Mike.
It was a fantastic question. And there are a couple of other questions that we have definitely
hit in the chat. We've kind of answered them through answers to other questions,
like Madison's question, um, about integrating tech into people analytics. Thank you, Madison,
for that fantastic question. Um, I know that we're getting closer to the top of the hour. This has
been such a fantastic conversation. I want to be able to go grab another question here from, um,
from Slido. Um, let's see. So Megan had asked, and she can't unmute to ask it. So I will ask it.
What kinds of qualitative data? So we, we mentioned qualitative data a few times or
qualitative analysis. Um, can you give a quick rundown on what is qualitative
versus quantitative data in people analytics? Yeah. Um, in people analytics, it's primarily
going to be comments from like survey in like open-ended comments, um, whether that's a survey
or some other form, um, interviews, uh, or focus groups. So I've had, uh, projects where, you know,
we've done interviews, facilitated focus groups, transcribe everything. Um,
uh, in grad school, I was taught how to do like qualitative research in a more traditional way.
So not necessarily using like NLP, but literally going like into the text and highlighting and
making codes and, um, basically doing topic modeling from scratch. Um,
um, so that, that's some of the qualitative data in people analytics. I don't know that there
would be, there's not really much other qualitative data I've worked with. Um, aside from those types
of things, I'm trying to think if there might be other like behavioral type observations, but even
then we're really getting more into the quantitative world. I do remember when I first started at,
at the army, I thought I knew what qualitative research was because I had studied mixed methods
and I quickly learned that like, what I thought was qualitative was still quantitative. Like for
me, I would think like, okay, we let's, let's look at our, you know, topic modeling and whatever the
most frequent topic that came up, you know, that's sort of our, our key topic. And it's like,
no, that's, that's quantitative. If you're counting anything, if you're
ranking anything, like you're not doing qualitative anymore. So I would say in people analytics,
we do more of that mixed methods type of stuff. Like we're, we're organizing qualitative data
and then analyzing it in qualitative and quantitative ways. Awesome. Well, we only
have a few minutes left, but maybe we can tackle sort of a hybrid version of several of these
questions, which are about modeling and about approaching measuring things. For example,
Bonnie asked, you know, what's the best approach to measure something like incentive that's
sensitive. You can't really set up AB testing. So like what kind of methods or models would you
work on there? And I think that our sentence had asked a question about modeling and maybe Rohan
as well. Common methods that people in analytics teams or people analytics teams are using.
Do you use structured equation modeling? So SEM, maybe a quick rundown on that before we say goodbye.
Yeah. I wish I had more time to answer this. Yes. I know it's a big one.
Structural equation modeling is, is one of my favorite things to go to. I you can do a lot
with, with SEM, especially in terms of like looking at like mediators and moderators of
different relationships between your predictors and your outcomes, being able to control for
multicollinearity in predictors and outcomes. Okay. Let me, one, one package I use a lot,
and I'll go back to the, the, the topic of like understanding drivers when it comes to survey
analysis, like what drives engagement relative weights analysis. And there's a package in R
called RWA is a really powerful tool for doing this. I won't go into the details of how it works
with three minutes left, but essentially it's, it's a way of using multiple regression that allows
you to control for multicollinearity in your predictors. So you can, it gives us a way of
rank ordering sort of what the most important features are for whatever outcome we're looking
at. That's a model that I've leaned on quite a bit over the last several years of my career. And,
and I feel like stakeholders that we I've been able to like land that pretty well and,
and get buy-in on, on what that means. I mean, when it comes to like how we're,
you know, validating what we're measuring, confirmatory factor analysis is I think the
gold standard for that. Sorry, I don't have more time to, to really dive into this. Those are sort
of like top of mind, like what I, what I lean on most often though. I will say like that Keith
McNulty has a book called on regression. I think one of the previous guests recommended it.
And in the forward of that book, Alexis Fink from Meta wrote it. And she refers to regression
as the Swiss army knife for people analytics. And I, I always keep that in the back of my mind.
Like it's, it's such a great tool, like to, to, to lean on, like if we don't know what else we're,
if we don't have another approach in mind, like regression is always a great place to start.
Fantastic. All right. Resources are in the chat. Rachel linked Keith McNulty's book, which is great.
I am so glad to hear that somebody out there is using CFA. It makes me feel better about learning
it in undergrad for so long. Thank you so much, Trevor, for spending time with us, everybody.
It was so wonderful to have you here. I am going to stick around for another minute in case you
would like to save the chat. So up in the right-hand corner of the chat, you can click
little three dots and save it. That way you have got it, all those resources. And I wanted to let
everybody know that next week we have Kara Thompson. I am so, so excited. Kara Thompson
is a data visualization, amazing person, runs her own business called building stories with data.
And I'm so excited for everybody to meet her. So thank you. Thank you, Trevor.
Thank you all. Thanks for having me.
Yeah. Happy Friday, everybody. Happy birthday to Rachel. We'll see you on Thursday.